README.md, before:

# soen422_project

## Compile code
Should be a makefile but I'm not famaliar with c and need to focus on other things.

### VM on Host
`gcc -D WIN10 ./src/admin.c ./src/hal_Out.c ./src/vm.c ./src/vmstack.c  ./src/hal.c  ./src/bsl_COut.c ./src/_console.c ./src/bsl_xtoa.c -o cm`    

### VM on Target
`cd src && ./compile_to_target.bat`


### A unit
`gcc a_unit.c -o a_unit`

## Testing on host
To run the precompiled tests do:
`./test_vm.bat`

### Failed tests
Note: the test programs and need to be in the same directory, the vm does not handle file paths.
Some tests are failing, looking at the code the test is failing because the expected result is wrong. I'm not sure why the expected result is nonsense, need to check with teacher...

For exmaple T01.exe
```
Test 01: Value Types (Literals)
-128|127|127|127|000DECAF|0000AB8D|0|9|a|A|10|10|10|10|10|false|true
-128|127|127|127|DECAF|AB8D|0|9|a|A|10|10|10|10|10|F|T
```

Notice how the generated hex values are padded and generated booleans are true/false.
Now if we look at the code:
```c
static void COut_PutB(bool b)        { printf("%s", b ? "true" : "false"); }
static void COut_PutX(u32  u)        { printf("%08lX", u); } // To make hex output always aligned to 8 hex digits.
```
The code acts as expted, padding the hex values and priting true/false.

## Other files
The *other_files* directory has random files that were included in an anouncement about the miderm "Midterm Exam Correction completed + Files for today's lecture",
the files for the **lecture** have the precompiled test code. There are also other files, not sure why they are there or why it was not included in the original source code. So

Commit message:

Lyam task7 (#4)
* Project setup

Added test files
Readme has the comoile commands

* Test folder was not used

* Done Task0 - Task4

Seperated BSL and HAL layers for Win and Atmega.
Uses conditianal commpilation to determine what to load.

The precompiled tests can be run on the host by setting mem.

Need to work out some kinks with mem size. The default 4096 size breaks
on the atmega.

* Task7 done

README.md, after:

# soen422_project

## Compile code
Should be a makefile but I'm not famaliar with c and need to focus on other things.

### VM on Host
`gcc -D WIN10 ./src/admin.c ./src/hal_Out.c ./src/vm.c ./src/vmstack.c  ./src/hal.c  ./src/bsl_COut.c ./src/_console.c ./src/bsl_xtoa.c -o cm`    

### VM on Target

You will need to modify the COM and the avrdude command. Should make it possible to add parameters.
`cd src && ./compile_to_target.bat`

### A unit
`gcc a_unit.c -o a_unit`

### Task 7
You will need to modify the COM and the avrdude command. Should make it possible to add parameters.
`cd src && ./testIOReg0.bat`


## Testing on host
To run the precompiled tests do:
`./test_vm.bat`

### Failed tests
Note: the test programs and need to be in the same directory, the vm does not handle file paths.
Some tests are failing, looking at the code the test is failing because the expected result is wrong. I'm not sure why the expected result is nonsense, need to check with teacher...

For exmaple T01.exe
```
Test 01: Value Types (Literals)
-128|127|127|127|000DECAF|0000AB8D|0|9|a|A|10|10|10|10|10|false|true
-128|127|127|127|DECAF|AB8D|0|9|a|A|10|10|10|10|10|F|T
```

Notice how the generated hex values are padded and generated booleans are true/false.
Now if we look at the code:
```c
static void COut_PutB(bool b)        { printf("%s", b ? "true" : "false"); }
static void COut_PutX(u32  u)        { printf("%08lX", u); } // To make hex output always aligned to 8 hex digits.
```

The code acts as expected, padding the hex values and priting true/false.

## Other files
The *other_files* directory has random files that were included in an anouncement about the miderm "Midterm Exam Correction completed + Files for today's lecture",
the files for the **lecture** have the precompiled test code. There are also other files, not sure why they are there or why it was not included in the original source code. So
